[Music]
Dear fellow practitioners, this question
relates to our week-long practice
dedicated to the
heroic martyrs and national heroes.  Uncle Ho passed away in 1969.
So, I would like to ask for your guidance on how to ensure that
the image of Uncle Ho remains forever in
the hearts of the Vietnamese people.  Is that a
good question?
[Applause]
Dear fellow practitioners,
I would like to share a
personal story of mine related
to President Ho Chi Minh.  Before discovering Buddhism,
President Ho Chi Minh was the source of faith,
strength, and support for all of you esteemed
Buddhist followers.
Because Yen has faith in President Ho Chi Minh,
she is filial to her parents, kind
to everyone, and
lives a moral and resilient life.
Therefore, when it comes to showing respect and love for Uncle Ho, Yen truly
respects and loves him.  And the person who conveyed
that love and respect to Yen was Yen's mother.  When Yen was a
child, her mother often had stories
about President Ho Chi Minh to tell her.  This was the
first story that Yen understood and
learned from her mother, and that's when she started
researching about President Ho Chi Minh.  Yen's mother recounted that
when President Ho Chi Minh died, even the rice planters wept upon hearing the news
.
All the people
stood still and wept
bitterly,
wailing and crying.
Yen's mother said that
everyone in the rice field was crying, hugging
each other and weeping.  People walking on the street also
stopped to cry, hugging each other and weeping.   I fell silent
and cried.
Nobody wants
anything anymore, all they can do is cry.
It was this story from Yen's mother that
prompted Yen to
continue her
research about President Ho Chi Minh, and to realize that
President Ho Chi Minh is a symbol of democracy.  Dear
fellow practitioners.
The symbol is very large.
[Applause]
Well, those symbols
were told to me by my mother through stories, then
my older sisters who went to school earlier told me about them through
pictures, and gradually as I grew up, I
learned about Uncle Ho.  In other words, Yen is saying that her
mind is always
filled with the Buddha's teachings and the image of the monks, just like now, her mind is
constantly occupied with the Buddha's teachings and the image of the monks to
that extent.  Because I faced
many difficulties when I was a child, my dear friends.
That child faced many difficulties, so he had to
obey Uncle Ho's teachings. He remembered Uncle Ho's
teachings by heart, and not a single year went by
without him being recognized as a good student of
Uncle Ho.
Because I deeply respect President Ho
Chi Minh, I thoroughly practice all of his teachings,
and his stories
help me overcome
obstacles.
For example, the stories depict how our people
suffered during that period, how much they suffered in 1945
.  Therefore, Yen never
felt deprived or miserable.
Because I've always known
that story and I know how much hardship President Ho Chi Minh had to endure
leading the people through
that period.  Therefore, I don't feel
miserable; I still feel happy, happier than
the people who lived before
liberation, my dear friends.  In other words, it's
impossible to list all the challenges I've overcome thanks to President Ho Chi Minh, my
esteemed friends.  For example, those high-heeled sandals, those
three-pack sandals that the old man wore from Phu Street back home
.  Let's stop here. Back then,
as Buddhists, we wore
rubber sandals, dear fellow practitioners.  Yen
also went to school wearing rubber sandals.  Inside the
schoolbag was a clip, and the
rubber sandals were so old that the clip was
worn out and missing.  After walking
a short distance, it slipped back down and used the stick
to lift the strap.  If it's
too empty, just insert a piece of wood.  That's the
spirit of the song "Rubber Sandals."
That's why I never ask for anything.
Therefore, if I don't demand anything, I
won't cause my parents any suffering.  Brother Quy,
all the people should compete in saving
money.  That's a quote from President Ho Chi Minh.  Therefore, the
sisters' home is very happy, and they get
along very well, which is exactly the example set by
President Ho Chi Minh, dear fellow believers.  That's a mirror.
President Ho Chi Minh's great example.   The
sisters told each other that there are
many songs about unity.  Then the song "Truong Son
East, Truong Son West" describes the
hardships faced by everyone.  So, when our parents came home from
work at 8 or 9 PM, my sisters and I would meticulously
divide up the chores.  What song does it have?
Five brothers in a tank.  So the
five brothers just talked amongst themselves.  Let's sing to
each other and get the housework done.  Isn't that right,
fellow practitioners?
There.  So, if we want to
rekindle the spirit of remembering
Uncle Ho in the younger generation, we certainly
don't know if we can do it with our own strength, so we
need films and movements that
recount
those stories and that spirit.  It is the older generations, my
esteemed friends, who
remember President Ho Chi Minh and
his spirit, his efforts to overcome challenges. That is, we did
n't just hear
stories about President Ho Chi Minh in school; our mothers
had already told us.  And those stories
were shared by dozens of people in the neighborhood, my dear
friends.  Even a 20-year-old has only
studied up to the 7th or 8th grade, my dear friends
.  When playing with first-grade children, just tell them all your
stories and they'll listen to them all.
So we advised each other, my esteemed fellow practitioners.   They
advised each other a lot.  Therefore, even a very young child
knows that Uncle Ho and the
soldiers were shackled and moved from
one prison to another to protect and win
independence for the people.  Therefore,
everyone has a constructive spirit, my esteemed fellow
practitioners.
There's a saying: "Small people do small tasks
according to their abilities."  So, in every household, whether it's
raising pigs, chickens, sweeping the house, tending the
garden, or planting cassava—all of these things—it's all done with the
spirit of "small people doing small tasks," right, my
esteemed friends?  While our parents were away from morning
till night, the housework was
handled meticulously by a team of five siblings, ensuring
not a single task was overlooked.  They go out
playing and shouting, then they go fetch water to water the
vegetables, then they carry water back home to drink—they do it all so diligently, my dear
friends.  They were very
healthy because they worked hard when they were young, so they were very
strong. It's not like now where water comes right
to your door, and you
don't even need an electric kettle to boil water, and all
those things make people
a little dependent.  So, in order to
inspire people to respect and admire Uncle
Ho, we need to have many
stories about him, my dear friends.
And parents have a responsibility to incorporate
that story into their children's lives and teach
them to strive to do
household chores and study hard.  Is that
possible, esteemed fellow practitioners?  So,
for those who are unfamiliar with
Buddhist teachings, like young children,
we have to help them find harmony and balance.
Therefore, we should also tell
stories while we're babysitting, dear
friends.  The goal is to strive to
improve the spirit of hard work
in each citizen, using President Ho Chi Minh as a
symbol.  For Yen, Uncle Ho is a
very important symbol, and it is Uncle Ho who has
helped her
overcome all her bad habits and vices,
and achieve a good moral character
.  It is precisely that virtuous character that
leads one to the true
teachings of the Buddha.  Therefore, it can be said that the person who
helped Yen embrace Buddhism was
President Ho Chi Minh.  Because the symbolism of the doctor helps
me purify my mind.  Because I
have purified my mind, I now find myself in
accordance with the Buddha's teachings.  But
if we are wicked people, then we
cannot immediately conform to the Buddha's
teachings.  It's not a path where you have to
experience suffering or something significant before you come
to Buddhism.  Do any of you fellow practitioners agree
?  I've noticed that the
things I respect about Uncle Ho, the
moral principles I uphold, when I encounter Buddhism, I find them
so fitting, so good, and the teachings in
Buddhism even guide
me further up the path.  That's how I
easily embraced Buddhism
and practiced diligently, my dear fellow
practitioners.  So,
if we instill in our children
a noble image of patriotism and love for the
people, a heart dedicated to the nation and its people,
and the overcoming of all
hardships for the sake of the people, as exemplified by President Ho Chi Minh, it
will motivate them to overcome
obstacles in their
daily lives and foster
greater gratitude.  Therefore, as Buddhists, when
we later establish Buddhist
centers and groups, we should
guide our children towards
songs about President Ho Chi Minh, stories
about President Ho Chi Minh, and
competitions for them about
emulating and learning from President Ho Chi Minh.   Is there
anything we can gain, esteemed fellow
practitioners?  It's difficult, but if we are determined, we can
still do it, my dear fellow practitioners.